---
title: "The hypostyle hall within the temple of Luxor, David Roberts (Scottish, 1796–1864)"
date: 2024-08-02T14:00:00Z
draft: false
cover: 
    image: "2.png"
    alt: "the hypostyle hall within the temple of Luxor"
    caption: "the hypostyle hall within the temple of Luxor - Oil on canvas"
---

*"The hypostyle hall within the temple of Luxor"* is a painting by **Scottish artist David Roberts**. It shows the central columns of the **Great Hypostyle Hall within the Karnak Temple Complex**.

David Roberts was born in **1796 and died in 1864**. He is especially known for The Holy Land, Syria, Idumea, Arabia, Egypt, and Nubia, a prolific series of detailed lithograph prints of Egypt and the Near East that he produced from sketches he made during long tours of the region (1838–1840).

The massive temple complex of Karnak was the principal religious center of the god Amun-Re in Thebes during the New Kingdom (which lasted from 1550 until 1070 B.C.E.). The complex remains one of the **largest religious complexes in the world**. However, Karnak was not just one temple dedicated to one god—it held not only the main precinct to the god —but also the precincts of the gods and. Compared to other temple compounds that survive from ancient Egypt, Karnak is in a poor state of preservation but it still gives scholars a wealth of information about Egyptian religion and art. 

One of the greatest architectural marvels of Karnak is the hypostyle hall (a space with a roof supported by columns) built during the Ramesside period. The hall has **134 massive sandstone columns** with the center twelve columns standing at 69 feet. Like most of the temple decoration, the hall would have been **brightly painted and some of this paint** still exists on the upper portions of the columns and ceiling today. With the center of the hall taller than the spaces on either side, the Egyptians allowed for clerestory lighting (a section of wall that allowed light and air into the otherwise dark space below). In fact, the earliest evidence for **clerestory lighting** comes from Egypt. Not many ancient Egyptians would have had access to this hall, since the further one went into the temple, the more restricted access became. [1]

[1]: https://www.khanacademy.org/humanities/ap-art-history/ancient-mediterranean-ap/ancient-egypt-ap/a/karnak